# Popular Gaming Trivia
### Description
Welcome to our gaming trivia GitHub page! Though I (K.J.) have previously used GitHub to view repositories, I have never created one of my own (manually) until this project called for it. I hope that this is satisfactory.

Onto the project itself, it is a basic command-line-based quiz program that is functionally split into three "screens" on the user end: the **Quiz Menu** in which the player selects which quiz they desire and input how many questions they want to be asked, the **Quiz Gameplay** segment which lists questions and gauges the user's answers, and the **Quiz Results** which prints the score and asks whether the player would like to take another quiz. 

Near the end of the semester, we had begun making programs that are more *compartmentalized* - meaning, they may have multiple functionalities or "screens" in which different types of input or output are given. The best example would be Assignment 4's Bank program, in which students were expected to make a program that can do a variety of processes depending on what a user selects (printing an amortization schedule, making a payment, displaying a pay-off time report, etc.). Though it was not explicitely stated in the assignment instructions, this type of program called for a **nonlinear** approach, such as having the user choose from a variety of items from a menu in any order. Similarly, the gaming trivia program also begins with a menu, allowing the user to choose any quiz in whichever order they please. Since many programs with real-world applications tend to have a variety of ways a user can interact with them, becoming familiar with creating these types of programs may be beneficial for later learning.

The code itself may be explained as three sections as well: **File Declarations & Definitions**, the **Encasing While Loop**, and the **Inner For Loop**. As the program is a trivia quiz, the bulk of the program is made up of question objects. There are 10 questions for each of the four standard quizzes (based off of Minecraft, Terraria, Pokemon Scarlet & Violet, and Super Mario 64), making 40 questions in total. Each question object is made up of a **prompt** string (the question itself), an **answer choices** string (where each question is multiple choice and must be answered A, B, C, or D), and a **correct answer** char (which matches the correct answer choice's character). Beyond defining questions, however, there is also the random device and default random engine (used to create a random seed for each run of the program) used to randomize the order of questions, error handling functions (for both entering incorrect input types and numbers out of the range of given numerical options) and values defined to hold user input.

The **While Loop** of the function includes everything that may be repeated on each run, specifically when the user decides they want to take another quiz. It begins by listing each quiz and prompting the player to enter a number corrosponding to which quiz they want to take. The first four options are all standard quizzes of each of the four games that can give up to 10 questions, while the fifth option is a "Quiz Mash-up" that may have up to 40 questions, as it may include questions from every game's trivia. Once the player chooses an option, the program checks if the input was valid (if the input cannot be an integer, is less than 1, or is greater than 5, it is considered invalid and the user must enter a valid integer) and then enters a switch case statement. The statement checks what number the player entered and populates a question bank vector accordingly, then proceeds to ask how many questions the user would like to be asked. Once a valid amount of  questions is submitted, the program proceeds to enter the Inner For Loop.

The **For Loop** is very simple: it prints the question & answer choices, then guides the player by asking them to input either A, B, C, or D (without case sensitivity, as the answer will always be converted to upper-case). Once the player gives a response, the program will check with an if statement whether the answer is correct or incorrect. If the answer is correct, the program will display that with "Correct!" and reward the user 10 points. If the answer is incorrect, it will instead display "Incorrect! The correct answer was " followed by the letter corrosponding to the correct answer.

Once the for loop has concluded, we are met with the **Quiz Results**. It displays the score correct out of the # of questions * 10 (the maximum possible score correlating to that # of questions), then whether the player passed or not. Finally, the user is prompted with whether they would like to take another quiz or not, in which their response will either continue or terminate the encasing while loop.

